We now have a formatted database in our query editor but still, we have to do something more.
Now this is where we ended in the last video,
let's now scroll to the right a little bit and take a closer look at the last three columns.
These columns are called population male, population female and population total,
there are two things that I don't like.
The first thing is that population total column because this is a redundant information because if we
add male and female,
well this should be the total,
so let's get rid of that last column first by selecting it, going to the home ribbon and simply pressing
remove columns.
Now this was easy and we already learned how to do this,
nevertheless the last two columns are not fine because we need two columns right here
but the information displayed is not the way it should be in a good data model because there, it should be one
column named gender,
so male and female
and the second column named population,
so I want to turn that information around somehow or I want to unpivot that information.
Let's see what it is and how we can do that.
So I'm selecting the population male column right now
and if we go to transform, we find the unpivot column option right here and by clicking that arrow, we
see that we again have two options,
so the unpivot columns,
so unpivot the selected columns option and unpivot other columns, so unpivot the unselected
columns option.
We want the unpivot the selected column, so we simply press that and see what happens
and what happened is that Power BI now created one column with the attribute, so population male and
the value,
so the population.
Now this is actually what we want but I want to have the male and female,
so this gender definition in that column and at the moment, this table is structured in a way that nobody
understands,
so we have to undo that,
we have two options on how to do it of course. We can either go to applied steps and press that x to
undo that step and
this works perfectly or we can simply select the attribute column and now go to pivot column
because this does exactly the opposite of what we just did.
So first we turned that column into rows,
now we turned that rows back into columns again.
So let's use that and see what happens.
So I'm pressing pivot column and now we have to define the value because if it unpivots that and makes that
population male from a row into a column name, then this column needs information in it and that information
is, well the value. Let's press that and press OK,
now we have to wait a few seconds
and we see that everything is the way it was before but this didn't help a lot, right because now we
didn't make any progress
but we know more and as we know more, we can now simply select both columns.
So I'm selecting the female column, pressing and holding shift and now select the second column,
now I'm in the transform ribbon still, go to unpivot columns and press that. Now we have to wait again
a few seconds
and now we are where we want to be,
we now have that new column with the gender which you should name according to that by the way
and we have that second column with the population which we should, sorry a little typo, which we should
also replace, like this.
So this looks fine
and please note that Power BI added that second row,
so we now have two rows with one Age-Group for one country and one period, the female and the male.
So we increased the amount of rows
but at the same time, we have a better structured model in the end
and that's why it's worth it.
Now one thing I don't like right here now is that name of that gender,
this doesn't look the way it should look now,
let's see how we can change that in the next video.